# Day 62: Manage Secrets in Kubernetes

## Scenario

The Nautilus DevOps team is working to deploy some tools in Kubernetes cluster. Some of the tools are licence based so that licence information needs to be stored securely within Kubernetes cluster. Therefore, the team wants to utilize Kubernetes secrets to store those secrets. Below you can find more details about the requirements:

- We already have a secret key file `ecommerce.txt` under `/opt` location on `jump host`. Create a `generic secret` named `ecommerce`, it should contain the `password/license-number` present in `ecommerce.txt` file.
- Also create a `pod` named `secret-xfusion`.
- Configure pod's spec as `container` name should be `secret-container-xfusion`, image should be `fedora` with `latest` tag (remember to mention the tag with image). Use `sleep` command for container so that it remains in running state. Consume the created secret and mount it under `/opt/games` within the `container`.
- To verify you can `exec` into the `container` `secret-container-xfusion`, to check the secret key under the mounted path `/opt/games`. Before hitting the Check button please make sure `pod/pods` are in `running` state, also validation can take some time to complete so keep patience.

  > **Note:** The `kubectl` utility on jump_host is configured to operate with the Kubernetes cluster.

---

## Task

- Create `Secret`.
- Consume `Secret` inside `pod`.


---

## Solution

### 1. Create the Secret from `ecommerce.txt`

```bash
kubectl create secret generic ecommerce --from-file=/opt/ecommerce.txt

```
---


### 2. Create the Pod `secret-xfusion` with Secret Volume Mount
```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: secret-xfusion
spec:
  containers:
  - name: secret-container-xfusion
    image: fedora:latest
    command: ["/bin/sh", "-c", "sleep infinity"]
    volumeMounts:
    - name: ecommerce-secret
      mountPath: /opt/games
  volumes:
  - name: ecommerce-secret
    secret:
      secretName: ecommerce

```
---

### 2. Apply manifest.
```bash
kubectl apply -f secret-pod.yaml

```
---

## Result

- `Secret` Created from file and mounted inside pod as a `volume`. 
