# Day 61: Init Containers in Kubernetes

## Scenario

There are some applications that need to be deployed on Kubernetes cluster and these apps have some pre-requisites where some configurations need to be changed before deploying the app container. Some of these changes cannot be made inside the images so the DevOps team has come up with a solution to use init containers to perform these tasks during deployment. Below is a sample scenario that the team is going to test first.

- Create a `Deployment named` as `ic-deploy-xfusion`.
- Configure `spec` as replicas should be `1`, labels `app` should be `ic-xfusion`, template's metadata lables `app` should be the same `ic-xfusion`.
- The `initContainers` should be named as `ic-msg-xfusion`, use image `debian` with `latest` tag and use command `'/bin/bash'`, `'-c'` and `'echo Init Done - Welcome to xFusionCorp Industries > /ic/media'`. The volume mount should be named as `ic-volume-xfusion` and mount path should be `/ic`.
- Main `container` should be named as `ic-main-xfusion`, use image `debian` with `latest` tag and use command `'/bin/bash'`, `'-c'` and `'while true; do cat /ic/media; sleep 5; done'`. The volume mount should be named as `ic-volume-xfusion` and mount path should be `/ic`.
- Volume to be named as `ic-volume-xfusion` and it should be an `emptyDir` type.

  > **Note:** The `kubectl` utility on jump_host is configured to operate with the Kubernetes cluster.

---

## Task

- Create `Demployment`.
- Add init `init container` inside deployment.
- Create a `emptyDir` volume.



---

## Solution

### 1. Prepare Deployment Manifest (ic-deploy-xfusion.yaml) 

```yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: ic-deploy-xfusion
  labels:
    app: ic-xfusion
spec:
  replicas: 1
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: ic-xfusion
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: ic-xfusion
    spec:
      initContainers:
      - name: ic-msg-xfusion
        image: debian:latest
        command: ["/bin/bash", "-c", "echo Init Done - Welcome to xFusionCorp Industries > /ic/media"]
        volumeMounts:
        - name: ic-volume-xfusion
          mountPath: /ic
      containers:
      - name: ic-main-xfusion
        image: debian:latest
        command: ["/bin/bash", "-c", "while true; do cat /ic/media; sleep 5; done"]
        volumeMounts:
        - name: ic-volume-xfusion
          mountPath: /ic
      volumes:
      - name: ic-volume-xfusion
        emptyDir: {}


```
---


### 2. Apply Manifest to create Deployment.
```bash
kubectl apply -f ic-deploy-xfusion.yaml
```
---

### 2. Verify pod behaviour.
```bash
kubectl logs -f ic-deploy-xfusion-59c486f6cf-bslz6
```
---

## Result

- With the deployment `initContainers` created along with main container inside `pod`. 
