# Day 81: Jenkins Multistage Pipeline


## Scenario

The development team of xFusionCorp Industries is working on to develop a new static website and they are planning to deploy the same on Nautilus App Servers using Jenkins pipeline. They have shared their requirements with the DevOps team and accordingly we need to create a Jenkins pipeline job. Please find below more details about the task:
- Click on the `Jenkins` button on the top bar to access the Jenkins UI. Login using username `admin` and password `Adm!n321`.
- Similarly, click on the `Gitea` button on the top bar to access the `Gitea UI`. Login using username `sarah` and password `Sarah_pass123`. There under user sarah you will find a repository named `web` that is already cloned on `Storage server` under `/var/www/html`. 
- Update the content of the file `index.html` under the same repository to `Welcome to xFusionCorp Industries` and push the changes to the origin into the `master` branch.
- Apache is already installed on all app Servers its running on port `8080`.
- Create a Jenkins pipeline job named `deploy-job` (it must not be a `Multibranch pipeline` job) and pipeline should have two stages `Deploy` and `Test` ( names are case sensitive ). Configure these stages as per details mentioned below.
  - The Deploy stage should `deploy` the code from web repository under `/var/www/html` on the `Storage Server`, as this location is already mounted to the document root `/var/www/html` of all app servers.
  - The `Test` stage should just test if the app is working fine and website is accessible. Its up to you how you design this stage to test it out, you can simply add a `curl` command as well to run a curl against the LBR URL (`http://stlb01:8091`) to see if the website is working or not. Make sure this stage fails in case the website/app is not working or if the `Deploy` stage fails.
 
Click on the `App` button on the top bar to see the latest changes you deployed. Please make sure the required content is loading on the main URL `http://stlb01:8091` i.e there should not be a sub-directory like `http://stlb01:8091/web` etc.

> **Note:**

- You might need to install some plugins and restart Jenkins service. So, we recommend clicking on `Restart Jenkins when installation is complete and no jobs are running` on plugin installation/update page i.e `update centre`. Also, Jenkins UI sometimes gets stuck when Jenkins service restarts in the back end. In this case, please make sure to refresh the UI page.
  
- For these kind of scenarios requiring changes to be done in a web UI, please take screenshots so that you can share it with us for review in case your task is marked incomplete. You may also consider using a screen recording software such as loom.com to record and share your work.
  
---

## Task

- Update `index.html`.
- Access the `Jenkins` via UI.
- Install Plugins.
- Create `job`.


---

## Solution

### 1. Access Jenkin via UI

```bash
Click on Jenkins button.
```
---

### 2. Install Plugins
```bash
Goto >> Manage Jenkins >> Plugins >> Select ssh, Git, Pipeline, SSH Build Agents >> Click on Install.
```

---



### 3. Update the repository (Clone or edit directly on the Storage server)

```bash
cd /var/www/html/
git add index.html
git commit -m "Update homepage content"
git push origin master

```


---



### 4. Create Key on Jenkin server and copy on storage server


```bash
jenkins@jenkins:~$ ssh-keygen -t rsa
jenkins@jenkins:~$ ssh-copy-id natasha@ststor01
[root@ststor01 ~]# cp -pr /home/natasha/.ssh/authorized_keys .ssh/

```
---



### 5. Create Job

Login to Jenkins >> Click New Item → name it deploy-job >> Select Pipeline (not Multibranch) >> In the pipeline configuration, choose Pipeline script and paste the following:

```groovy

pipeline {
    agent any

    stages {
        stage('Deploy') {
            steps {
                echo 'Deploying website from Gitea'
                // Pull latest code into /var/www/html
                sh '''
                ssh -o StrictHostKeyChecking=no root@ststor01 "cd /var/www/html/web && git pull origin master"
                '''
            }
        }

        stage('Test') {
            steps {
                echo 'Testing website accessibility'
                // Curl against LBR URL
                sh '''
                curl -s --fail http://stlb01:8091 | grep "Welcome to xFusionCorp Industries"
                '''
            }
        }
    }

    post {
        failure {
            echo 'Pipeline failed.'
        }
        success {
            echo 'Deployment successful!'
        }
    }
}


```


---

- Build Now
  
> Incase error reported (fatal: detected dubious ownership in repository at '/var/www/html' To add an exception for this directory).
> Run from jenkin server (ssh root@ststor01 "git config --global --add safe.directory /var/www/html") 

---


> **Result:**  Validate result.
By clicking on App
