# Day 93: Using Ansible Conditionals

## Scenario

The Nautilus DevOps team had a discussion about, how they can train different team members to use Ansible for different automation tasks. There are numerous ways to perform a particular task using Ansible, but we want to utilize each aspect that Ansible offers. The team wants to utilise Ansible's conditionals to perform the following task:

- An inventory file is already placed under `/home/thor/ansible` directory on `jump host`, with all the `Stratos DC app servers` included.
- Create a playbook `/home/thor/ansible/playbook.yml` and make sure to use Ansible's `when` conditionals statements to perform the below given tasks.
  - Copy `blog.txt` file present under `/usr/src/security` directory on `jump host` to `App Server 1` under `/opt/security` directory. Its user and group owner must be user `tony` and its permissions must be `0777`.
  - Copy `story.txt` file present under `/usr/src/security` directory on `jump host` to `App Server 2` under `/opt/security` directory. Its user and group owner must be user `steve` and its permissions must be `0777`.
  - Copy `media.txt` file present under `/usr/src/security` directory on `jump host` to `App Server 3` under `/opt/security` directory. Its user and group owner must be user `banner` and its permissions must be `0777`.
  > **Note:** You can use `ansible_nodename` variable from gathered facts `with` when condition. Additionally, please make sure you are running the play for all hosts i.e use `- hosts: all`.  
  > **Note:** Validation will run the playbook using the command `ansible-playbook -i inventory playbook.yml`. Ensure the playbook works without any additional arguments.
  
---

## Task

- Create `playbook`.

---

## Solution

### 1. Consume existing inventory:

```bash
[app_servers]
stapp01 ansible_host=172.16.238.10 ansible_ssh_pass=Ir0nM@n ansible_user=tony
stapp02 ansible_host=172.16.238.11 ansible_ssh_pass=Am3ric@ ansible_user=steve
stapp03 ansible_host=172.16.238.12 ansible_ssh_pass=BigGr33n ansible_user=banner
```
---

### 2. Create Playbook: (~/ansible/playbook.yml)

```yml
---
- name: Conditional file copy to app servers
  hosts: all
  become: yes
  tasks:
    - name: Copy blog.txt to App Server 1
      copy:
        src: /usr/src/security/blog.txt
        dest: /opt/security/blog.txt
        owner: tony
        group: tony
        mode: '0777'
      when: inventory_hostname == "stapp01"

    - name: Copy story.txt to App Server 2
      copy:
        src: /usr/src/security/story.txt
        dest: /opt/security/story.txt
        owner: steve
        group: steve
        mode: '0777'
      when: inventory_hostname == "stapp02"

    - name: Copy media.txt to App Server 3
      copy:
        src: /usr/src/security/media.txt
        dest: /opt/security/media.txt
        owner: banner
        group: banner
        mode: '0777'
      when: inventory_hostname == "stapp03"


```

---


## Result

> Check ouput :
```bash
ansible-playbook -i inventory playbook.yml
```
